README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/OpenCageData/address-formatting.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/OpenCageData/address-formatting)

# address formatting


### A quick example

Given a set of address parts

     house_number:  17
     road:          Rue du Médecin-Colonel Calbairac
     neighbourhood: Lafourguette
     suburb:        Toulouse Ouest
     postcode:      31000
     city:          Toulouse
     county:        Toulouse
     state:         Midi-Pyrénées
     country:       France
     country_code:  FR

you want to write logic to compile addresses in the format consumers expect

    17 Rue du Médecin-Colonel Calbairac
    31000 Toulouse
    France

or perhaps simply

    Rue du Médecin-Colonel Calbairac
    Toulouse
    France

This repository contains templates for various address formats used in
territories around the world. It also contains test cases.

### Which addresses we're talking about

The intended use-case is database or geocoding systems (forward, reverse, autocomplete) where we know both the country of the address and the language of the user/reader. The address is displayed to a consumer (for example in an app) and not used to print on an envelope for actual postal delivery. We use it to format output from the [OpenCage Geocoder](https://opencagedata.com).

We have to deal with

   * incomplete data
   * anything with a name (peaks, bridges, bus stops)

Unlike [physical post (office) mail](http://www.bitboost.com/ref/international-address-formats.html) we don't have to deal with

   * apartment/flat number, floor numbers
   * PO boxes
   * translating the language of the (destination) address. Whatever language is input is output. 
  
### Processing logic

Our goal with this repository is a series of (programming) language independent templates. Those templates can then be processed by whatever software you like. 

We've written, use and maintain a working implementation of a processer in Perl, see (CPAN: [Geo::Address::Formatter](https://metacpan.org/release/Geo-Address-Formatter), [github repo](https://github.com/opencagedata/perl-Geo-Address-Formatter)). 
There is also an open-source [implementation in PHP](https://github.com/predicthq/address-formatter-php).

We would love there to be other language implementations. 
If you do write a processor, please let us know so we can list it here. 

### Coverage

As of `Sat 25 Mar 2017` coverage is:

    We are aware of 248 territories
    We have tests for 250 (100%) territories
    We have rules for 249 (100%) territories
    0 (0%) territories have neither rules nor tests

We need more language specific abbreviations, please see `conf/abbreviations`

A detailed breakdown of test and configuration coverage can be found by running `bin/coverage.pl -d`. A list of all known territories is in `conf/country_codes.yaml` Note: the list is simple all officially assigned [ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2#Officially_assigned_code_elements), and is not a political statement on whether or not these territories are or are not or should or should not be political states. 

### File format

The files are in [YAML](http://yaml.org/) format. The templates are written in [Mustache](http://mustache.github.io/). Both formats are human readable, strict, solve escaping and support comments. YAML allows references (called "ankers") to avoid copy&paste, Mustache allows sub-templates (called "partials").

### How to add your country/territory

1. edit the .yaml testcase for the country/territory in `testcases/countries`. The file names correspond to the appropriate ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code - see `conf/country_codes.yaml`
  * a good way to get sample data is:
      * find an addressed location (house, business, etc) in your
        target territory in OpenStreetMap
      * get the coordinates (lat, long) of the location
      * put the coordinates into the [OpenCage Geocoder demo
        page](https://opencagedata.com/demo)
      * look at the resulting JSON in the *Raw Response* tab

2. edit `conf/countries/worldwide.yaml`
  * Possibly your country/territory uses an existing generic format as
    defined at the top of the file. If so, great, just map you
    country_code to the generic template. You may still want to add
    clean up code (see the entry for `DE` as an example).
  * If not you need to define a new generic rule set
      * possibly you will need to define new state/region mappings in `conf/state_codes.yaml`

3. to test you will now need to process the .yaml test via a processer
   (see above) and ensure the input leads to the desired output.

If in doubt, please get in touch via github issues.

### Formatting rules

Currently we support the following formatting rules:

* `replace:` regex that operates on the input values, useful for removing bureaucratic cruft like "London Borough of ". Note if you define the regex starting with format _X=_, for example _city=_ it should operate only on values with that key
* `postformat_replace:` regex that operates on the final output
* `add_component:` with a value of the form `component=XXXX`
* `change_country:` change the country value of the input, useful for dependent territories. Can include a substitution like `$state` so that that component value is then inserted into the new country value. See `testcases/countries/sh.yaml` for an example.
* `use_country:` use the formating configuration of another country, useful for dependent territories to avoid duplicating configuration

### The future

More tests! For every rule about addresses there are exceptions and edge cases to consider. More test cases are always needed.

Planned features

  * basic error checking, for example ignore things which obviously can not be postcodes
  * define rules for postcode format specifically

We welcome your pull requests. Together we can address the world!

### Who are we?

We run the [OpenCage Geocoder](https://opencagedata.com). 

We also run [#geomob](http://geomobldn.org), a meetup of London location based service developers where we do our best to highlight geoinnovation. 

### Further reading

Here's [our blog post anouncing this project](https://blog.opencagedata.com/post/99059889253/good-looking-addresses-solving-the-berlin-berlin) and the motivations behind it.

You may enjoy Michael Tandy's [Falsehoods Programmers Believe about Addresses](http://www.mjt.me.uk/posts/falsehoods-programmers-believe-about-addresses/).

If it's actual address data you're after, check out [OpenAddresses](http://openaddresses.io/).

If you want to turn longitude, latitude into well formatted addresses or placenames, well that's what a geocoder does. Check out ours: [OpenCage Geocoder](https://opencagedata.com).

If all this convinces you that address are evil, please check out [what3words](http://what3words.com) which allows you to dispense with them entirely.

Commit message:

geomob is also in Barcelona, not just London

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/OpenCageData/address-formatting.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/OpenCageData/address-formatting)

# address formatting


### A quick example

Given a set of address parts

     house_number:  17
     road:          Rue du Médecin-Colonel Calbairac
     neighbourhood: Lafourguette
     suburb:        Toulouse Ouest
     postcode:      31000
     city:          Toulouse
     county:        Toulouse
     state:         Midi-Pyrénées
     country:       France
     country_code:  FR

you want to write logic to compile addresses in the format consumers expect

    17 Rue du Médecin-Colonel Calbairac
    31000 Toulouse
    France

or perhaps simply

    Rue du Médecin-Colonel Calbairac
    Toulouse
    France

This repository contains templates for various address formats used in
territories around the world. It also contains test cases.

### Which addresses we're talking about

The intended use-case is database or geocoding systems (forward, reverse, autocomplete) where we know both the country of the address and the language of the user/reader. The address is displayed to a consumer (for example in an app) and not used to print on an envelope for actual postal delivery. We use it to format output from the [OpenCage Geocoder](https://opencagedata.com).

We have to deal with

   * incomplete data
   * anything with a name (peaks, bridges, bus stops)

Unlike [physical post (office) mail](http://www.bitboost.com/ref/international-address-formats.html) we don't have to deal with

   * apartment/flat number, floor numbers
   * PO boxes
   * translating the language of the (destination) address. Whatever language is input is output. 
  
### Processing logic

Our goal with this repository is a series of (programming) language independent templates. Those templates can then be processed by whatever software you like. 

We've written, use and maintain a working implementation of a processer in Perl, see (CPAN: [Geo::Address::Formatter](https://metacpan.org/release/Geo-Address-Formatter), [github repo](https://github.com/opencagedata/perl-Geo-Address-Formatter)). 
There is also an open-source [implementation in PHP](https://github.com/predicthq/address-formatter-php).

We would love there to be other language implementations. 
If you do write a processor, please let us know so we can list it here. 

### Coverage

As of `Sat 25 Mar 2017` coverage is:

    We are aware of 248 territories
    We have tests for 250 (100%) territories
    We have rules for 249 (100%) territories
    0 (0%) territories have neither rules nor tests

We need more language specific abbreviations, please see `conf/abbreviations`

A detailed breakdown of test and configuration coverage can be found by running `bin/coverage.pl -d`. A list of all known territories is in `conf/country_codes.yaml` Note: the list is simple all officially assigned [ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 codes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2#Officially_assigned_code_elements), and is not a political statement on whether or not these territories are or are not or should or should not be political states. 

### File format

The files are in [YAML](http://yaml.org/) format. The templates are written in [Mustache](http://mustache.github.io/). Both formats are human readable, strict, solve escaping and support comments. YAML allows references (called "ankers") to avoid copy&paste, Mustache allows sub-templates (called "partials").

### How to add your country/territory

1. edit the .yaml testcase for the country/territory in `testcases/countries`. The file names correspond to the appropriate ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code - see `conf/country_codes.yaml`
  * a good way to get sample data is:
      * find an addressed location (house, business, etc) in your
        target territory in OpenStreetMap
      * get the coordinates (lat, long) of the location
      * put the coordinates into the [OpenCage Geocoder demo
        page](https://opencagedata.com/demo)
      * look at the resulting JSON in the *Raw Response* tab

2. edit `conf/countries/worldwide.yaml`
  * Possibly your country/territory uses an existing generic format as
    defined at the top of the file. If so, great, just map you
    country_code to the generic template. You may still want to add
    clean up code (see the entry for `DE` as an example).
  * If not you need to define a new generic rule set
      * possibly you will need to define new state/region mappings in `conf/state_codes.yaml`

3. to test you will now need to process the .yaml test via a processer
   (see above) and ensure the input leads to the desired output.

If in doubt, please get in touch via github issues.

### Formatting rules

Currently we support the following formatting rules:

* `replace:` regex that operates on the input values, useful for removing bureaucratic cruft like "London Borough of ". Note if you define the regex starting with format _X=_, for example _city=_ it should operate only on values with that key
* `postformat_replace:` regex that operates on the final output
* `add_component:` with a value of the form `component=XXXX`
* `change_country:` change the country value of the input, useful for dependent territories. Can include a substitution like `$state` so that that component value is then inserted into the new country value. See `testcases/countries/sh.yaml` for an example.
* `use_country:` use the formating configuration of another country, useful for dependent territories to avoid duplicating configuration

### The future

More tests! For every rule about addresses there are exceptions and edge cases to consider. More test cases are always needed.

Planned features

  * basic error checking, for example ignore things which obviously can not be postcodes
  * define rules for postcode format specifically

We welcome your pull requests. Together we can address the world!

### Who are we?

We run the [OpenCage Geocoder](https://opencagedata.com). 

We also run [#geomob](http://geomobldn.org), a series of regular meetups of location based service creators in London and Barcelona, where we do our best to highlight geoinnovation. 

### Further reading

Here's [our blog post anouncing this project](https://blog.opencagedata.com/post/99059889253/good-looking-addresses-solving-the-berlin-berlin) and the motivations behind it.

You may enjoy Michael Tandy's [Falsehoods Programmers Believe about Addresses](http://www.mjt.me.uk/posts/falsehoods-programmers-believe-about-addresses/).

If it's actual address data you're after, check out [OpenAddresses](http://openaddresses.io/).

If you want to turn longitude, latitude into well formatted addresses or placenames, well that's what a geocoder does. Check out ours: [OpenCage Geocoder](https://opencagedata.com).

If all this convinces you that address are evil, please check out [what3words](http://what3words.com) which allows you to dispense with them entirely.
